Houston Holman
1/26/22

Overview of Natural Language Processing

a. define NLP in your own words

	Natural Language Processing is how computers are able to understand human language. Unlike coding languages, 
	natural human language is imprecise and vague. Different methods can be used to break down human language
	into something a computer may understand and take meaningful action on.

b. describe the relationship between AI and NLP

	The most advanced forms of NLP rely on AI. Methods of NLP that do not rely on AI such as a rules-based approach
	fail to account for the near limitless number of possible inputs that come with human language. Deep neural nets
	are able to learn from large datasets of text to understand the meaning and context of the input.

c. write a sentence or two comparing and contrasting natural language understanding and natural language generation

	Both NLU and NLG fall under the umbrella of NLP and deal with computers understanding human language. NLU
	refers to the ability of a computer to understand the meaning and context of human language while NLG
	refers to the ability of a computer to generate coherent human-like language that is grammatically
	correct.

d. list some examples of modern NLP applications

	Modern NLP applications include voice assistants such as Siri and Alexa, translation tools such as Google
	Translate, and chat bots such as ChatGPT.

e. write 3 paragraphs describing each of the 3 main approaches to NLP, and list examples of each approach

	The simplest technique for NLP is a rules-based approach. This kind of approach relies on hardcoded rules
	that check for certain conditions in the input, such as keywords. A famous example of a rules based aproach is
	Eliza, a chatbot from the 1960's. This approach can be useful for programs with limited features, such as 
	a virtual store assistant or a car voice control. This approach fails at scale, however, for in order to 
	accept more inputs, more rules must be added manually.

	Statistical and probabilistic approaches leverage the power of math to better succeed at NLP. Words are counted
	by the machine and it finds the probabilities of words and sequences to create useful language models. This
	approach is useful for language translation and predictive text. This is also the approach used by classic
	machine learning algorithms, as they analyze large amounts of prompt-response pairs to create the most likely
	response.

	Deep learning is the most complex approach to NLP. It utlizes different varients of neural networks to not just 
	find a likely response to a user but to also consider the context of the conversation. Larger models such as
	ChatGPT utilize petabytes of data and advanced hardware to train their language skills. Deep learning has the
	potential for human-sounding interactions with computers, which would mark a huge step in the field of AI.
	

f. write a paragraph describing your personal interest in NLP and whether/how you would like to learn more about NLP 
for personal projects and/or professional application

	I have always been fascinated with the field of NLP. When I was a kid I would spend hours playing with programs 
	like Siri and Cleverbot, amazed at how they were able to understand me. The interactions of these programs were
	often very simple or nonsensical. More recently, I have been amazed by the power of ChatGPT and have again
	spent many hours asking it to generate songs or summarize complex topics. I am looking forward to learning
	more about the implementation of NLP so that I can make my own chatbots. I have no current goals in mind
	for professional applications, but as NLP advances, I'm sure that it can be applied to any field that has
	a program taking input from a consumer. My hope is to be one of the people creating these models, and not
	someone that will be replaced by one.